## Section 2 Azure Machine Learning - Fundamentals and Primers

#### Azure ML (GenAI + Classical ML)

Azure ML provides a unified workspace to build, train, evaluate and deploy both types of models.

Azure ML Ecosystem:

1. The workspace automatically provides storages, key vault, log analytics, and application insights during creation.

2. The storage account is important, because it will store the data you will be using and the status of your training.

3. The Azure Machine Learning Studio is the interface of Azure ML workspace.

Features:

- Register datastores and data assets
- Build your models using open-source ML frameworks, collaborate with Python Notebooks
- Deploy compute instance, clusters and K8s clusters
- Train and track models with MLflow and logged metrics
- Register models as Artifacts and create Registries
- Deploy models to endpoints

Azure Machine Learning Designer: useful for low-code developers, rapid prototyping and iteration.

GenAI with ML Workspaces

Azure Machine Learning Studio:

- Model Catalog
- Authoring
  - Notebooks: connect with GitHub, Jupyter Notebook, etc.
    - Files can be obtained by `git clone` in terminal
  - Automated ML: decide the best algorithm and hyperparameters for you
  - Designer: build ML model in a low-code style
  - Prompt Flow: create micro-services of GenAI
- Assets
  - Data: register data
    - Azure ML supports the creation of **datastore** for multiple kind of Azure data source
      - Azure Blob Storage
      - Azure File Share
      - Azure Data Lake (Gen2)
    - URIs: http(s) for storage account or public resources, abfs(s) for Azure Data Lake Gen2, and azureml for datastore
    - **Data Asset**: URI file, URI folder, and MLTable
  - Job: what experiments have you run for from the python notebooks
  - Models: model versioning
  - Endpoints: endpoints to your Models
- Manage
  - Compute: create compute instances

#### Azure ML SDK

Azure ML SDK v1(azureml-core) was the original Python SDK used for experiments, datasets, and model deployment.

This version becomes complex and fragmented.

SDK v2(**azure-ai-ml**) provides a simplier, more consistent developer experience.

#### Creating and Managing Datastores

Initiate your datastores using [Jupyter Notebook](https://github.com/kuljotSB/AI-300/blob/main/Machine_Learning_Models/Data_Storage/Stores_and_Assets.ipynb).

Select Compute Instance and the right kernel before you start (Python 3.10 - SDK v2).

```
from azure.ai.ml.entities import AzureBlobDatastore
from azure.ai.ml.entities import AccountKeyConfiguration
from azure.ai.ml import MLClient
from azure.identity import DefaultAzureCredential

ml_client = MLClient.from_config(credential=DefaultAzureCredential())

print(f"Ready to use Azure ML SDK v2 to work with {ml_client.workspace_name}")
```

#### The 'Big Data' Problem

**Spark** is a powerful cross-platform technology. It is deep-rooted in the Databricks ecosystem.

High-level Working Architecture

**Work** submitted to the cluster is split into as many independent **jobs** as needed. Jobs are futher subdividede into tasks.

**Spark Dataframe** is a distributed, structured collection of data organized into rows and columns.

```
df = spark.read.load("/path-to-your-data.csv", format='csv',schema=orderSchema)
spark_df = spark.sql(sqlQuery)
df_sales = df_spark.toPandas()
```

**Pandas** library in Python suits for datasets that fit into memory on a single machine, ideal for exploratory data analysis (EDA) and feature engineering.

However, spark runs on a distributed cluster, and is designed for large-scale big data processing.

## Section 3: Statistical and Machine Learning Foundations

Making model too less complex introduces bias and leads to underfitting. Making the model too complex introduces high variance and leads to overfitting (variance-bias tradeoff).

Data collection -> Data cleaning -> Feature engineering -> Training models on training and validation set -> Testing model on test set -> deployment of the model

K-fold cross-validation, leave one out cross-validation (LOOCV)

Most labs in the course will utilize **Spark** and **Pandas** for data processing. **Scikit-learn** and **PyTorch** for model development, **matplotlib** and **seaborn** for visualization.

#### Linear Algorithms

Linear algorithms mean linear combinations of features.

Shrinkage Regression Methods: Ridge and Lasson regression

Simple linear regression might overestimate the weightage of one feature and capture noise in the training data, leading to hight test error. A tuning parameter behaves as a hyperparameter and panalize model on overestimating the influence of one parameter.

Linear vs. Logistic Regression

Use linear regression when you want to predict continuous values and use logistic regression when you want to predict classified value.

#### Lab: Training & Deploying a Prediction Model using Designer and Pipeline

In designer, we can drag and drop components of ML models, then submit it to pipeline for running.

In `Jobs` -> `Create inference pipeline` -> `real-time inference pipeline`, we can create a inference model based on the linear model we just created.

To test data manually, we can add the component called `Enter Data Manually`.

After we finish the inference model, click `Deploy`.

The endpoint and model will automatically appears in `Endpoint` and `Model` section.

The deployment will create an Azure Container Registry resource for ML model, so we need give `Container Instance Contributor` role to the resource group.

After deploying it to an endpoint, we can call it using REST method with Bearer Token.

`Experiments` in Azure ML are logical containers used to organize and track related machine learning jobs, allowing you to compare runs, monitors metrics, and manage model development workflows.

`Jobs` in Azure ML are the fundamental execution units used to run machine learning tasks such as training models, data processing, or pipelines on compute resources.

`Run` in Azure ML represents individual executions of a job within an experiment.

#### Classification Evaluations: Confusion Matrix and ROC Curve

A confusion matrix is used to evaluate the performance of a classification model.

It enables calculation of Accruacy, Precision, Recall, and F1 Score.

The ROC curve (Receiver Operating Charteristics) plots True Positive Rate (Recall) on the Y-axis, and False Positive Rate on the X-axis.

AUC (Area Under the Curve): 1.0 -> Perfect classifier.

#### Introduction to AutoML

Automated Machine Learning (AutoML) automatically builds and tunes ML models, it reduces manual effort in model selection, feature engineering, and hyperparameter tuning.

User only needs to give data, target metrics, constraints(time/cost) and all the rest is automated.

AutoML considers the constraints given as inputs by the user and chooses the model that maximizes the optimation metrics like AUC, ROC, MSE, Accuracy, Precision etc.

`Authoring` -> `Automated ML`

## Section 4: Orchestrating ML Model Training with MLflow

#### MLflow

[MLflow](https://mlflow.org/)

`MLflow` is an open source platform for developing models and generative AI applications.

- Tracking & Logging
- Model Deployment
- Model Registry

```
import mlflow
mlflow.set_experiment('mlflow-experiment')
mlflow.start_run()
mlflow.log_param('accuracy', n)
mlflow.sklearn.log_model(sk_model=model, ...)
mlflow.end_run()
```

After tracking model using mlflow, we can found model specfication under `Outputs + logs` tab.

#### Environments in Azure ML

`Environments` define the software dependencies required to run ML workloads, like Python packages, libraries, and system dependencies.

Typically defined using Conda specifications and Docker containers.

Types of environments:

- Curated Environments: prebuilt by Microsoft
- Custom Environments: user-defined
  - Dockerfile and conda.yaml
    - conda.yaml can be found in the artifacts of mlflows
